Israel has continued its air strikes on
several parts of the Gaza Strip even as
it continues issuing controversial
evacuation orders to Palestinians the
Israeli military said its troops had
found many tunnels used by Hamas at the
Raffa Crossing into Egypt while the
Israeli Defense Forces have declared a
narrow Coastal strip at al- moazi to be
a safe humanitarian Zone but the UN says
it has no running water or proper
sanitation Israel says that since Monday
about 300,000 Palestinians have already
fled Rafa the US is still urging Israel
not to mount a full scale assault on the
city and in the north there are
evacuations in the city of jabalia as
the IDF says that it's been carrying out
air strikes it says Hamas Fighters are
regrouping there meanwhile a top EU
official sha Michelle has condemned
Israel's evacuation orders saying that
people are being directed towards unsafe
areas while the UK foreign office is
investigating claims by Hamas that a
British Israeli hostage has died in Gaza
nadav Powell was seized with his mother
on October the 7th from the narim kibuts
in southern Israel Hamas claims that Mr
Powell died of wound sustained in an
Israeli air strike more than a month ago
the Israeli military is yet to comment
the UK foreign secretary Lord Cameron
was asked about the claim on Sunday with
Laura cburg like everyone else I watched
the video on
Twitter X last night put out by Hamas of
nadav answering a question as to who he
was and I watched that video and you
just think what you know
callous people they are to do that to
play with the family's emotions in that
way I I've met nf's family his sister
and I know the Heartbreak they've been
going through for over 200 days and when
you see what Hamas are prepared to do
you just realize uh the the the Terrible
Dreadful inhuman people frankly that we
are dealing
with the UK foreign secretary well our
diplomatic correspondant Paul Adams is
in
Jerusalem these were claims that emerged
yesterday when Hamas as it has done
repeatedly throughout this crisis
released a video uh in which they said
that nadav Powell who's 51 uh was killed
in an Israeli air strike now we have
absolutely no way of verifying that we
don't know when the video that they
released yesterday was shot uh we need
to be extremely careful about any
assertions that Hamas is making about
the circumstances uh surrounding uh his
death or indeed whether indeed nadav
poell is dead but that is what Hamas
said we know that his brother was killed
on October the 7th they were both uh
attacked uh on October the 7th their
mother was also abducted but she was
released uh later in the first of the uh
uh ceasefire hostage
negotiations uh the foreign office as
you say is looking into this but this is
this kind of goes to the heart of one of
the issues that still divides uh Israel
and Hamas during these tortuous
negotiations aimed at getting a
ceasefire organized which is how many
Israeli hostages and dual National
hostages are there how many are still
alive how many are dead
uh over the months tragically the number
of uh dead hostages has risen while the
expectations for the number of live
hostages has uh diminished somewhat um
and this is uh a very live issue because
the Israelis want much more clarity
about what they can expect from Hamas in
terms of the release of hostages alive
and dead in return for a ceasefire deal
Paul will await uh any more comments
from or any comments from the UK foreign
office as it investigates those Hamas
claims about the British Israeli hostage
just in terms of the evacuations itself
uh of course Flyers are being dropped
where are Palestinians being told to
move
to they're consistently being told to go
uh West Northwest to the almasi area
which is an area along the coast an area
that the Israelis identified right at
the beginning of this C campaign as uh a
safe secure humanitarian Zone uh and
some of them are going further north uh
to some of the middle uh areas of the
Gaza Strip either way they are going to
places that are profoundly unsuitable uh
for human habitation uh there are no
Provisions for them when they get there
no one is setting up tent encampments
for them there is no water no sanitation
getting food and other Aid to them is
increasingly difficult uh we now
estimate that or at least following the
Israeli announcement last night that
300,000 people have uh heeded Israeli
warnings to leave that I would say
something close to a quarter of the
population that have been craned into
Rafa in recent months are now on the
move and that is just adding to the
enormous pressure uh on those areas
almasi and the middle part part of the
Gaza Strip uh with parts of Rafa now
becoming something of a ghost town so
many people went down from the northern
part and then from Han Yunis to Rafa uh
over the months huge tent cities sprang
up along the Rafa border with Egypt some
of those 10 encampments are now uh
emptying and emptying fast as people who
have moved three four five times already
uh feel that they're going to have to
move again soon and they're not waiting
for the Israeli military to arrive
they're packing up and they're leaving
because they've seen it all
before so that was Paul Adams and I want
to pick up with some of the points that
he made with our guest Isabella tiira
who's a humanitarian media specialist at
action Aid UK and I know Isabella your
organization is supporting people in
Rafa just talk us through what people
who have been leaving uh Rafa have been
telling your people on the ground there
well thank you for having me um yeah I
mean right now in Rafa there is just
absolute fear and confusion and panic on
the ground um hundreds of thousands of
people have already um fled these are
people who've had to flee carrying their
belongings under a scorching hot sun not
knowing where they can go that is safe
that they can um you know start a new
life for themselves um remember most of
these people have had to flee multiple
times we're talking five six seven times
already um our teams on the ground have
spoken to some people who have arrived
in Dera Bala which is one of the um
so-called safe zones um they've
described absolutely horrendous Journeys
um traveling by bus while you know
bombardments um took place all around
them um they've talked about arriving in
darala and you know
having more scenes of chaos um greeting
them basically with none of the kind of
Essentials that they need one man told
us that he was trying to um build a tent
for him and himself and his disabled
mother and he was you know unable to
Source the materials he needed because
there were they were so limited in
supplying the prices had gone up so much
so I mean really the situation is just
utterly utterly dire right now um and
there's just so much
uncertainty so these areas that you
described one de alala of course Al
maasi Han yunice they're being described
as humanitarian zones but in your
opinion they don't account for that abs
absolutely not I mean these are places
that were already you know before these
latest evacuations began were already
completely overcrowded Al Moi which is a
tiny strip of land which is mostly
sandunes um was already home to about
400,000 people um there just isn't the
infrastructure to accommodate all these
new arrivals there's no one to meet them
there's no one
to there's there's nothing basically to
give them you know it's absolutely dire
um yeah Isabella in terms of action a in
terms of your organization how does it
operate under these circumstances on the
ground where there is so much
need I mean as always we're doing
everything we can but there is just such
difficult circumstances and things are
changing day to day I mean we've had
some of our colleagues and partners
already had to flee Rafa so even in the
last few days the situation has changed
so quickly but I mean right now the the
situation with um getting and
distributing Aid is just incredibly
incredibly difficult ult I mean in Rafa
right now Rafa remember is the main area
through which um Aid arrives two of the
main Aid Crossings are located in Rafa
um one of these the Rafa Rafa Crossing
is um still closed um the other uh has
kamam Shalom has opened uh but Aid is
not able to be um delivered through that
Crossing because of the kind of
intensity of the fighting and because
it's just so dangerous right now um so
the humanity humanitarian situation in
Raa which was already you know
incredibly on a knife edge is just
deteriorating um by the minute really I
mean the Health Care system has all but
collapsed one of the main hospitals in
Rafa had to evacuate um earlier this
week that leaves just two smaller um
hospitals and a few other medical
facilities which are you know warning
that they are running out of fuel um you
know due due to the sustained lack of
Aid people in rraa are you know they're
starving they're hungry they don't have
enough um water um 10% of children under
the age of two are acutely malnourished
I mean it really is an incredibly dire
situation and there's you know Aid
organizations like ours are doing
everything they can but it's it's it's
incredibly incredibly difficult Isabella
to thank you very much for just uh
outlining the conditions of the are your
team operating there across Gaza from
action a UK thank you very much well
there is much more on this story story
further coverage of the Israel Gaza war
on our website also you can just go to
the BBC News app as well where we are
continuing those reports as Israel
intensifies its military operations in
southern Gaza and those tens of
thousands more Palestinians are leaving
Rafa